Let's talk about use imperative handle.
So I'm going to use imperative handle,
I'm going to scroll down here and
I'm going to venture to say that
unless you are a library author,
you will literally never use this one.
I want you to know about
it that it exists but
this is really only useful if
you're creating like a library.
So I feel like you're an SDK author at
Microsoft and your entire team consumes
your SDK, you might use this If you
are just writing an application,
for airbnb.com,
you probably will never use this.
So let's talk about this particular,
good piece right now,
if I have a address here, so a city and
a state in the United States so
I can put like Salt Lake City,
and I can click Validate form.
It's gonna say that's a valid
form you put in a valid city so
set's say I forgot Salt Lake City and
I just did that.
I want to turn this red, right or
if I come in to settle and
then I put Washington,
it's gonna say, that's not right.
I expected a two letter state, right, so
here's my code that does
that kind of validation.
I have an elaborate input,
that's this one and I have a form, which
is the imperative handle component that
has two elaborate inputs inside of it.
Now what I wanna be able to do is like,
hey, I want to turn
your border red if someone something
doesn't validate on that particular thing.
But all that validation logic is going to
happen here in the imperative component
and I want to be able to
inform the elaborated input,
because it has no functionality in and
of itself.
It's just like it just shows what
the user is putting in and it has some,
display stuff,
but none of the validation logic lives
inside of the elaborate input itself.
Because notice here, Seattle and
Washington, they're both just
elaborate inputs so how do I make
those show errors or not show errors?
Well, the way you can do that is something
called a use imperative handles so
I have this hook here,
basically returns a function that that
a parent can call to say,
hey, focus, right?
And that's another part here, that's
actually the more important In part.
Let's say I put in nothing here and
I clicked here on and
I clicked on validate form.
I want the focus of the user to jump
from here to the one that's wrong so
I click Validate Form.
Notice that my focus jumped there and
I didn't do anything, right?
It just jumped over there, that's not
something that the parent could do.
The parent can't reach into the child and
say, Hey, focus on this,
input element that exists inside of you.
That's something that the child
has to do in and of itself and
the only way you're actually able to
do that is with this imperative handle.
So this focus thing here,
I use another ref here, so where's my ref?
My input ref right there, right?
And then that is placed on this input
element here with the input ref,
right, so that's going to refer to this
input for each individual one right.
The Seattle has one and
the Washington one here, has one as well.
Then I had this imperative Hana which
allows me to create a function on this
component.
Okay, so
now this function on this component
has a functionality called focus,
which allows me to call the focus on the
input and I then pass that to the parent.
So I had this elaborate input for
this imperative handle which
is being rendered here and
then it has two refs,
a city one and a state one,
I'm putting those refs on the city one and
the statement but
notice that these reps are going on custom
components, right things that I made.
It's not going on an input or
a div or an h1 or anything like that,
it's going on what's something I made?
This allows the child to modify the ref
that's handed back to the parent,
so the child takes as soon as like, okay,
this state l now has a function called
focus that you the parent
can call imperatively.
That's where the imperative part
of the handle comes from, so
now I have this functionality of validate
which I definitely did not copy and
paste directly off the Stack Overflow.
And I can call city L,
which is the wrath right?
Current dot focus and
I'm calling this from the parent, so
the parent is actually calling a function
on the child with the child created.
Now, you might question like,
why would I ever do this?
And the answer is you wouldn't,
right typically, you would just
Implement all this code yourself.
But if I'm a library author, and
I make a MPM install elaborate
input that you can install,
I need to provide you away to call
focus on this elaborate input ,right?
So this is made for library authors but
it is something that react does for
you ,make sense?
Okay, it kind of makes sense I mean,
that's that's good enough for me,
it's good enough that you
kind of know that it exists.
It's going to be more important
that sometime you're going to be.
Like NPM install an elaborate input and
then be like,
hey, you need to put a ref on this so
that you can call this function.
This is why, that's the key part for
you to take away is how to use these
not necessarily how to create them.